editorial
Catching up with multiplexed tissue imaging
Highly multiplexed tissue imaging continues to show its power for biomedical discovery. In this issue, we publish
tools and guidance for implementing this class of methods and reporting subsequent results.
I
mmunofluorescence imaging of tissues guidance for generating robust and multiplexed image data and overcomes
has been a staple in biomedical research, reproducible imaging data using issues associated with very large datasets.
enabling researchers to gain rich antibody-based multiplexing approaches. In the spirit of usability, MCMICRO is
information that can complement what can This piece integrates advice from domain implemented in Nextflow and Galaxy, which
be seen using traditional approaches such as experts and methods developers to help offer a command line interface and graphical
histological staining. Immunofluorescence lower the barrier to new users getting user interface, respectively. The software
imaging offers high spatial resolution optimal results with what can be complicated is extensively documented, and numerous
over large regions and is uniquely suited and nuanced protocols. In addition to resources are available to implement the
to imaging the location and abundance describing numerous multiplexed imaging many tools included in the pipeline.
of specific proteins of interest. Recent approaches, the authors outline strategies Despite our longstanding interest in
years have seen immunofluorescence for preparing both samples and labeling imaging and microscopy, Nature Methods
pushed seemingly to its limits in terms of reagents, provide guidance for rigorous does not have a long history of publishing
multiplexing, with well over 20 targets being antibody validation, and describe how to methods for highly multiplexed tissue
readily accessible in a given experiment. build suitable multiplexed antibody panels. imaging. Two notable exceptions are our
These highly multiplexed tissue imaging They also offer an in-depth discussion of 2014 paper from Detlef Günther, Bernd
experiments (including CyCIF, mIHC, the unique aspects of processing, analyzing Bodenmiller and colleagues describing
IMC, MELC, mxIF, CODEX and MIBI) can and storing highly multiplexed imaging data. the first application of CyTOF to imaging
seem like an alphabet soup, but they tend Additionally, they provide an invaluable list tumor tissues and the 2017 paper from
to have methodological commonalities. of community-validated antibody clones Bodenmiller and colleagues describing
Most use antibody-based staining to gain against human and mouse proteins suitable histoCAT, a computational analysis toolbox
target specificity combined with either a for highly multiplexed imaging. for interactive and quantitative analysis of
fluorescence microscopy or imaging mass A Comment from Sandro Santagata, multiplexed imaging data.
spectrometry readout. Many of the methods Peter Sorger and colleagues including the Tissue imaging has long been the
involve cyclic imaging or multiple rounds of HTAN consortium puts forth the Minimum domain of histologists and pathologists,
staining to achieve high levels of multiplexing. Information about Highly Multiplexed with an emphasis on diagnostic imaging. At
Although the proteome coverage of these Tissue Imaging (MITI) standard. This Nature Methods, our editorial scope is fixed
methods does not yet approach what can be work seeks to keep the reporting of these squarely on methods for basic research. This
achieved for spatial transcriptomics methods, multiplexed imaging data at pace with precludes diagnostic, preclinical, clinical
this level of multiplexing can already be standards developed for genomics and other and translational methods, including digital
used to distinguish among cell types and microscopy data. The authors emphasize that pathology — a methods space that has
give detailed insight into tissue architecture, the imminent release of atlas-type datasets exploded, especially with the rise of deep
with single-cell resolution. Indeed, these combining highly multiplexed imaging and learning for image analysis. That said, this
techniques fill a methodological gap yet omics data reveals an immediate need for data area continues to grow and increase its reach
unfilled by single-cell proteomics approaches and metadata standards that facilitate data into basic research, most notably in areas such
and are a crucial complement to conventional curation and sharing. The piece promotes as immunology and cancer biology, aligning it
and spatial omics technologies targeting MITI guidelines and implementations, more closely with our editorial scope.
the genome and transcriptome. As such, describes the governance and future of MITI, We expect that advances in probes,
several large consortia including the Human and notes that MITI consortium guidelines barcoding strategies, affinity reagents,
BioMolecular Atlas Program (HuBMAP), the are designed to be broadly applicable multiplexed detection, microscope
Human Tumor Atlas Network (HTAN) and and open to updates. Such guidelines are sensitivity and microscope throughput will
the LifeTime Initiative are working toward necessary to improve the reproducibility and continue to move highly multiplexed tissue
creating atlases combining data from highly reuse of such highly multiplexed data. imaging forward in important ways. We also
multiplexed tissue imaging with single-cell A Brief Communication from Peter think improved methods for integrating
omics data. Such atlases will yield unique Sorger and colleagues describing Multiple multiplexed imaging data with other omics
insight into tissue structure and function in Choice MICROscopy (MCMICRO) rounds technologies will be crucial to the next
health and disease. out the series. MCMICRO is a computational phases of technological advancement.
As with many areas of fast-paced pipeline for analyzing whole-slide images Finally, improved algorithmic and software
methods growth, sometimes analytical of highly multiplexed tissue imaging data tools for viewing and analyzing highly
tools, best practices guidelines and optimal that meets the unique needs of these types multiplexed and multi-modal omics data
reporting standards lag behind early waves of datasets and offers powerful analytical will also be needed to make the most of
of development and biological applications. capabilities. MCMICRO is open access and these advances. We welcome submissions
Three papers published in this issue aim allows for modular customization of its that push the limits of these technologies to
to address these open areas and improve workflow, ultimately enabling researchers enable new biological discovery. ❐
multiplexed tissue imaging in practice. to handle all analytical steps from
A Perspective from Andrea Radtke, whole-slide images to single-cell data; it is Published online: 11 March 2022
Sinem Saka and colleagues provides also compatible with many types of highly https://doi.org/10.1038/s41592-022-01428-z
Nature Methods | VOL 19 | MarcH 2022 | 259 | www.nature.com/naturemethods 259